the long-awaited day is finally here this felca
team just announced her release is SvelteKit 1.0
which means it's finally production ready for
those of you who are unfamiliar with spell kit
I will briefly go over what it is and some
of the out-of-the-box features it provides
then I'll show you how to deploy a spell kit
application on Vercel in under a minute as well
as the added benefits you get when deploying
folkit applications on for sale finally for
those of you who are familiar with spell kit
I'll go over a few of the recent changes as
it looks quite different today than it did
just a few months ago so let's get started
so SvelteKit is a newer framework for building web
applications that's been gaining popularity due
to its performance and simplicity it's built on
top of Svelte so you can think of it kind of like
what Next.js is for React and it really simplifies
the process of building and deploying applications
Now SvelteKit comes with server-side rendering
which is great for performance and SEO it makes
building static sites super simple which is
great if you're building a blog post or a
marketing site anything that's really content
heavy it has typescript support and also hot
modular replacement which allows you to see all
of your changes in real time without loading
state or refreshing the page now spell kit also
has some amazing out-of-the-box features such
as its directory based routing it has a super
intuitive layout system server side rendering
and a really unique and convenient way of loading
data into pages and layouts through what we call
the load function now before we dive a little
deeper into a few of these features let's first
get an application up and deployed on Vercel
so we can reference it throughout this video
now with Vercel it's extremely simple to get
started with spell kid we can go to the Vercel
template marketplace search for SvelteKit
templates and select the templates we want to
use then we just click deploy now oversell will
deploy this template for us in just a matter of
seconds while this process is finishing up we can
expand the logs and watch the build process as it
happens and I also want to mention that for cell
supports GitHub, Gitlab, and Bitbucket with native
git integration however you can also use your CLI
or API to deploy your code we just try to make it
as easy as possible to get your code off your
local machine and into the cloud behind a URL
all right so now our app is deployed and we can
go check it out so here we have our live site and
it's behind the default Vercel domain but if you
have a custom domain you can update that in the
dashboard now let's make some changes to the code
base so we can explore some more of ourselves cool
features here I've created a new branch where I
added a new page at the slash Vercel route so
back in our command line let's push these changes
up to Vercel now my code has been sent to Vercel
and thanks to Vercel's automatic git integration
anytime a new commit is made is going to recognize
this commit kick off a new build and start the
process of building our app and deploying it out
to every region in Vercel's network since this was
pushed to a branch rather than main you can see by
the URL that we're looking at a preview deployment
now if we click it we'll see in addition to our
newest changes we also have this toolbar at the
bottom of the screen here you can either share
with your team or make it so anyone who has
a link can log in and start leaving comments
so for example we can leave a comment up here
and we can even attach a screenshot if we wanted
to thanks to the Chrome integration in the
sidebar we can view all the comments as well
as mark them as resolved so now let's say this
branch has been reviewed by the team and all the
comments are resolved so we're ready to deploy
this to production we can merge the branch into
main which would automatically redeploy main
with the updated code but we can also promote
this branch to production in our dashboard so
back in our dashboard we can click these three
dots and we'll have the option to promote
to production so let's go ahead and do that
now listed here are all of our deployments and
unfortunately every now and then a branch may
get merged into main that introduces a bug or
decreases performance in these instances we want
to revert to a previous stable commit as fast
as possible Vercel provides us with instant
rollbacks which allow us to instantly roll back
to previous deployment without rebuilding for
example if we want to roll back to this deployment
we just click the three dots and we can click roll
back and now our site is instantly rolled back to
the stable deployment without having to rebuild
the application so if we once again check out
our production deployment we see that we've
rolled back to our previous deployment and our
new Vercel tab is no longer there Vercel also
provides analytics for your web app by adding
Vercel analytics to your project you're able
to visualize your app's Core Web Vitals as well
as gain insights into your audience here we can
see data such as the total number of page views
the top pages being viewed browsers being used to
view your application and more by deploying your
SvelteKit apps on Vercel serverless functions
are automatically configured and we can view
our function logs here in the dashboard if we
visit our production deployment and enter
a word into this svordle game back in our
dashboard this function is logged what's even
cooler is that spell kit also supports Vercel's
Edge Functions which allow you to run JavaScript
code on their globally distributed edge network
this means you can serve your users dynamically
rendered pages at the same speed you would serve
static files from a CDN now there have been
quite a few changes made to SvelteKit in the
past few months and a good amount of them were
breaking changes so if you've used SvelteKit in
the past you might find it feels quite unfamiliar
today let's go over the most notable changes the
first being the change to SvelteKit's file based
routing previously any file added to the routes
directory would automatically create a route
at that name so for example creating the page
in our routes directory called about.svelte
would automatically create a page at /about
and adding an index.ph file would create our
root page now all routes are directory based
and the old index that Svelte has been replaced
by +page.svelte this new convention ensures
that you are deliberately creating a route and
eliminates the need for the old naming convention
that required you to use underscores in order to
co-locate non-page files in the routes directory
with the new routing changes came major changes
to the layout system as well instead of naming
our layout files underscore underscore layout
that's felt we now name them plus layout that's
felt similar to our pages previously we
could have multiple layouts in a single
directory using named layouts such as index at
about.svelte which we have since said goodbye to
in addition to these changes a new grouped layouts
convention was added and this allows us to share
layouts within group directories which are folders
wrapped in parentheses group directories do not
affect the path name of nested routes but acts as
root routes for layouts there have also been some
big changes made to how you load data into a page
previously the load function would be called in a
page component's context module script block
and the return data would become available
to the page as a prop a page calling the load
function would have looked something like this
now SvelteKit has completely gotten rid of
the context module and the load function has
moved into the endpoint file now a page file
can automatically load data from its sibling
plus page.js route by exporting the strongly
typed data prop loading data into a page the
new way would be done like this first we need to
create a page.js file that calls the load function
and then within our page.svelte file we just export
our data prop now the data returned from our load
function is available via this prop as I mentioned
earlier data is strongly typed so in this example
data would be typed like this. Now these are just
a few of the most recent changes made to SvelteKit
If you want a more complete list, I recommend
checking out the migration guide which I will link
in the description below if you want to learn
SvelteKit in more depth Vercel has a complete
beginner SvelteKit course that's free and I
will also link that in the description below
otherwise that is all for now I hope you guys
enjoy building with SvelteKit and if you deploy
any of your projects to Vercel link them in the
comments below because I'd love to check them out